---
layout: post
title: "CS5520 Final Project Proposal"
date: 2021-11-12
---


# **Final Project Proposal**:

My To Do App has now been built up with a main frame that integrates MVC structure. And basic functions of an electronic To-do list have been enabled on my App. The next step is to move forward to refining my App and adding additional features based on the main frame I have constructed. Before I move forward to adding features, there are a couple of things that I need to resolve first. Firstly, I need to change the class name which defines the DAO and repository of my app. I need to change the name to something relatable to my App such as Todo. Secondly, I will test my Work manager which schedules reminder task with a delay. Multiple tests with different input will be used to make sure this function is stable when users using it. In addition to retuning the features of the app, I will separate the file into different folders to clearly distinguish each layer of the structure which makes it easier to debug and elaborates on existing features. Javadoc will also be written to explain the function of each method. 

There will be three major features that I want to add for my To-do App. Firstly, reshaping the UI with Jetpack Compose to make it appealing to users and easier to use. Secondly, adding ability to attach a photo, voice/audio recording, or finger scribble to a to do. Thirdly, adding cloud backup to the room database by Firebase Realtime Database.

The first feature I will add is using Jetpack compose to make the UI look nicer and easier to use. Specifically, I will try to replace each item in the list that displays to-do items in the main activity with nicer UI that indicates the title, deadline, and a short description for the to-do. Right now, the item display looks bad because all it shows is the title of the to-do item in a very simple and unappealing way. I will be using material design and write composable functions to redesign the way each item looks like in the list. Secondly, when user choose to edit the item, I will refill the activity with the content of the to-do item which user has specified when generating this item. If it’s not hard and very time consuming, I will consider removing the xml file and the recycler view with Jetpack compose.

The second feature is adding ability to attach a photo, voice/audio recording, or finger scribble to a to-do. When user request to add a photo or finger scribble to their to-do item, the app will upload the selected picture or voice to the database, and the content will be displayed in the editing area. If the user chooses to set up a reminder, the reminder will create an intent to jump to edit activity where everything is filled up. In addition to that, there will be an edit button that enables the user to key in texts or pictures when editing their to do item. The user doesn’t need to unlock the text box when they generate a task. And we user choose to cancel a to-do item; the app will prompt the user to confirm their action to cancel. All these features are serving the user to make my app more user friendly.

Lastly, I will add clod backup to the room database by Firebase Real-Time Database. I have done it before without MVC structure and jetpack. This will be different and difficult because I must consider the existence of jetpack and the structure. I think Firebase works well with the login authentication of the user. If I can figure out a way to create user account and provide users with log in to authenticate, the Firebase can be used to enable my user to use their information on multiple platforms such as a different phone or laptop. But, implementing this might be difficult. So, I will first focus on get the firebase running and then step into user authentication. 

